In this project, I apply the Cultural Consensus Theory (CCT) model using PyMC to analyze a dataset of local plant knowledge. The dataset comprised binary responses (either 0 or 1) from 10 informants, who were answering 20 questions. The model employed a hierarchical structure to jointly infer informant competence scores, as well as latent consensus answers for each item.
The informants' Competence, D, was modeled assuming moderate prior belief in informant accuracy (centered around 0.5). Consensus Answers(Z), was modeled with Bernoulli(0.5) priors, indicating no prior bias toward any specific answer. 
Informant competence (𝐷𝑖) is modeled with a Beta prior, scaled between 0.5 and 1, ensuring that all informants possess at least a baseline level of knowledge. The likelihood function is defined using a Bernoulli distribution, linking observed responses to both competence and consensus parameters. 
I chose to model the Informants' Competence using a Uniform Distribution, bounded between 0.5 and 1, because ideally, there should be an even distribution of prior knowledge among participants.

For posterior inference, I used PyMC's MCMC sampler. Then, I used ArviZ for diagnostics and visualization, to analyze convergence diagnostics and compute posterior means. The estimates I received suggest that Informant 6 was the most knowledgeable, at 0.875, while Informant 3 was among the least competent, at 0.561. All scores were above 0.5.
The posterior mean probability for each consensus answer showed that most questions had a clear consensus values near 1 indicated agreement on "True," and values near 0 indicated agreement on "False." However, Question 6 (Z[5]) had a mean of 0.589, showing that informants were split, which might mean this was a difficult question.

The function "compare_with_majority" evaluates how the simple majority compares to the consensus key generated by the Cultural Consensus Theory (CCT) model, which weights responses based on informant competence. While most questions had consistent answers between the simple majority and CCT model, discrepancies were found in several questions, which highlight the strength of the CCT model: it can minimize the influence of less competent informants and elevate the weight of more knowledgeable ones, leading to a more accurate consensus.